resource control: GA for 7.1 (#13300)
pingcap/docs: tidb-resource-control.md

- Combine multiple small and medium-sized applications from different systems into a single TiDB cluster. When the workload of an application grows larger, it does not affect the normal operation of other applications. When the system workload is low, busy applications can still be allocated the required system resources even if they exceed the set read and write quotas, so as to achieve the maximum utilization of resources.
- Choose to combine all test environments into a single TiDB cluster, or group the batch tasks that consume more resources into a single resource group. It can improve hardware utilization and reduce operating costs while ensuring that critical applications can always get the necessary resources.

> - When there are various business workloads in the system, you can put different workloads into different resource groups. By using the resource control feature, you can ensure that the response time of transactional business is not affected by data analysis or batch business.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When there are mixed workloads in the same system, you can put different workloads into individual resource groups. By using the resource control feature, you can ensure that the response time of transactional applications is not affected by data analysis or batch applications.
```

> - When there are mixed workloads in the same system, you can put different workloads into individual resource groups. By using the resource control feature, you can ensure that the response time of transactional applications is not affected by data analysis or batch applications.

Author: ```suggestion
- When there are mixed workloads in the same system, you can put different workloads into separate resource groups. By using the resource control feature, you can ensure that the response time of transactional applications is not affected by data analysis or batch applications.
```

> - When the cluster encounters an unexpected SQL performance problem, you can use SQL Binding and resource groups to temporarily limit the resource consumption of a SQL statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When the cluster encounters an unexpected SQL performance problem, you can use SQL Binding along with resource groups to temporarily limit the resource consumption of a SQL statement.
```

> - When there are mixed workloads in the same system, you can put different workloads into separate resource groups. By using the resource control feature, you can ensure that the response time of transactional applications is not affected by data analysis or batch applications.
> - When the cluster encounters an unexpected SQL performance problem, you can use SQL Binding along with resource groups to temporarily limit the resource consumption of a SQL statement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When there are mixed workloads in a system, you can put different workloads into separate resource groups. By using the resource control feature, you can ensure that the response time of transactional applications is not affected by data analysis or batch applications.
- When the cluster encounters an unexpected SQL performance issue, you can use SQL bindings along with resource groups to temporarily limit the resource consumption of a SQL statement.
```

## How to use resource control

> This section describes how to use the resource control feature to manage resource groups and control the resource usage of each resource group.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This section describes how to use the resource control feature to manage resource groups and control the resource allocation of each resource group.
```

> ### Methods for estimating capacity

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Estimate cluster capacity
```

> Before resource planning, you need to know the overall capacity of the cluster. TiDB provides the statement [`CALIBRATE RESOURCE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-calibrate-resource.md) to estimate the cluster capacity. TiDB provides two estimation methods:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before resource planning, you need to know the overall capacity of the cluster. TiDB provides the statement [`CALIBRATE RESOURCE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-calibrate-resource.md) to estimate the cluster capacity. You can use one of the following methods:
```

## Tool compatibility

The resource control feature does not impact the regular usage of data import, export, and other replication tools. BR, TiDB Lightning, and TiCDC do not currently support processing DDL operations related to resource control, and their resource consumption is not limited by resource control.

## FAQ

> 1. If I do not want to use resource groups to control resources for now, do I have to disable this feature?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Do I have to disable resource control if I don't want to use resource groups?
```

>     No. Users who do not specify any resource groups will be placed in the `default` resource group that has unlimited resources. When all users belong to the `default` resource group, the resource allocation method is the same as when the resource control is disabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    No. Users who do not specify any resource groups will be bound to the `default` resource group that has unlimited resources. When all users belong to the `default` resource group, the resource allocation method is the same as when the resource control is disabled.
```

2. Can a database user be bound to several resource groups?

>     No. A database user can only be bound to one resource group. However, during the session runtime, you can use [`SET RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-resource-group.md) to set the resource group used by the current session. You can also use the optimizer [`RESOURCE_GROUP()`](/optimizer-hints.md#resource_groupresource_group_name) Hint to set the resource group for the running statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    No. A database user can only be bound to one resource group. However, during the session runtime, you can use [`SET RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-resource-group.md) to set the resource group used by the current session. You can also use the optimizer hint [`RESOURCE_GROUP()`](/optimizer-hints.md#resource_groupresource_group_name) to set the resource group for the running statement.
```

> 3. What happens when the total usage (`RU_PER_SEC`) of all resource groups exceeds the system capacity?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. What happens when the total resource allocation (`RU_PER_SEC`) of all resource groups exceeds the system capacity?
```

>     TiDB does not check the capacity when you create a resource group. As long as the system has enough available resources, TiDB can meet the usage requirements of each resource group. When the system resources exceed the limit, TiDB will first meet the requests of the high-priority (PRIORITY) resource groups. If the requests of the same priority cannot be met, TiDB will allocate resources proportionally according to the usage (`RU_PER_SEC`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    TiDB does not verify the capacity when you create a resource group. As long as the system has enough available resources, TiDB can meet the resource requirements of each resource group. When the system is saturated, TiDB will first meet the requests coming from resource groups with high priority. If the requests with the same priority cannot be met, TiDB will allocate resources proportionally according to the resource allocation (`RU_PER_SEC`).
```

>     TiDB does not verify the capacity when you create a resource group. As long as the system has enough available resources, TiDB can meet the resource requirements of each resource group. When the system is saturated, TiDB will first meet the requests coming from resource groups with higher priority. If the requests with the same priority cannot be met, TiDB will allocate resources proportionally according to the resource allocation (`RU_PER_SEC`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    TiDB does not verify the capacity when you create a resource group. As long as the system has enough available resources, TiDB can meet the resource requirements of each resource group. When the system resources exceed the limit, TiDB prioritizes satisfying requests from resource groups with higher priority. If requests with the same priority cannot all be met, TiDB allocates resources proportionally according to the resource allocation (`RU_PER_SEC`).
```
